hello again you're watching Al jazer a
reminder of our top stories this hour
halfway through a 4day ceasefire in Gaza
and a second group of 39 Palestinian
Prisoners has been released from Israeli
jails there've been tears and joy as
families and loved ones welcome them
home 13 Israelis and four Thai captives
released by Hamas from Gaza are now back
in Israel this is the second group to be
freed in the prisoner exchange deal six
are women and seven are children
children at least eight Palestinians
have been killed in the occupied West
Bank it happened as Israeli forces
carried out an overnight raid in the
city of Janine Israeli military vehicles
blocked access to two major
hospitals let's get an update from on
the ground in Gaza now hanni Mahmud is
there for us in KH unun in the southern
Gaza Strip so hany this has been a uh a
relief on some level for people in Gaza
from the fighting just tell us what's
been happening there
[Music]
this has well despite the this relief
that is felt by uh the vast majority of
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and and
despite the the calm the relative calm
and peaceful uh night the the
Palestinian are still expressing
frustration over the fact that this
ceasefire is incomplete it's it's it's
somehow unfair given the fact there's
1.5 million evacuees still in the
southern part who are unable to go to
the north to check on their home to see
if they are still is standing uh some of
them have have relatives who were
stranded and and were in in their homes
when they got bombs they wanted to take
this opportunity and have the ability to
go to the northern part in Gaza City
just to look for those uh Missing
trapped and deceased bodies under under
the rubbles and give them the proper uh
the proper funeral procession and pay
the respect and and and offer the the
prayer uh for them but that has not
happen yet increasing Their Fear of of
permanent displacement in the sun part
in on on the first day of the ceas fire
group of evacuees attempted to go to the
northern part but they were unable as
they were shot at at an area established
by this really military called the
ceasefire line they were shot at with
live ammunition and tear gas two people
reported killed and multiple other were
were injured there is also still a sense
of of deprivation among Palestinian when
they look at the number of humanitarian
aided trucks allowed into Gaza and when
when compared to the level of misery and
suffering caused by the sheer amount of
Destruction and and when you look at the
wiped out neighborhoods completely
particularly in in the northern part
they think it's they are still deprived
of those essential humanitarian Aid
items that could help them deal with the
with the destruction and this this
disaster of life as they know it uh
there is a hope right now that this
ceasefire despite its fragility and we
saw last night when the exchange of of
hostages and Palestinian detes was held
up for several hours it it just
underscore the fragility of the Sea Fire
and and and sent waves of concern that
this might not last or it will was going
to come to an end shattering any
possibilities of of extension after the
the four the four days for a lot of
people yet it's an opportunity to uh
Embrace their their loved ones and and
relatives whether they are evacuees with
them or here in the sun part or uh they
are still in the northern part still
communication doesn't help them to get
hold of of all of their relatives and
and that's another a a problem and
increasing the trauma and the stress
that the reason people are not picking
up their phone is because they they're
either dead or uh they are their gun
missing hany Mahmud lifers there in Khan
Unice